docs/src/manual/source/guide/configuration.md, before:

---
file: configuration
---
# Configuration

Create a `securesocial.conf` file within your app's conf directory.  Then include it from your `application.conf` file.  

## Mail settings

If you plan to use the `UsernamePasswordProvider` you need to configure your mail service. SecureSocial uses the [mailer plugin](https://github.com/typesafehub/play-plugins/tree/master/mailer) from Typesafe.

These settings go in the `smtp` section of the `securesocial.conf` file:

	:::bash
	smtp {
		host=smtp.gmail.com
		#port=25
		ssl=true
		user="your_user"
		password=your_password
		from="your_from_address"
	}

## Redirection and SSL

SecureSocial tries to redirect the user back to the page they intended to access after login.  There are cases where this can't be done (eg: the user tried to POST a form) or accessed the login page directly.  Adding the `onLoginGoto` property allows SecureSocial to redirect the user to the page you need.  There is also a `onLogoutGoto` property for logout actions.

You can enable SSL for OAuth callbacks and for the login, signup and reset password actions of the `UsernamePasswordProvider` (you'll want this in production mode).

	:::bash
	securesocial {
		#
		# Where to redirect the user if SecureSocial can't figure that out from
		# the request that led the use to the login page
		#
		onLoginGoTo=/

		#
		# Where to redirect the user when he logs out. If not set SecureSocial will redirect to the login page
		#
		onLogoutGoTo=/login

		#
		# Enable SSL for oauth callback urls and login/signup/password recovery pages
		#
		ssl=false	
	}

## Provider settings

The configuration for each provider goes within the `securesocial` section as well. 

### Username Passsword Provider

The following properties can be configured:

- `withUserNameSupport`: depending on your app you can decide to use email addresses or usernames for login.  When this setting is set to `false`, the username field will be hidden in the sign up form and the email address/password combination will be used to authenticate the user.  When set to `true` usernames will be used.

- `sendWelcomeEmail`: if the to `true` a welcome email will be sent to users after sign up.

- `enableGravatarSupport`: if set to `true` Gravatar will be used to retrieve a profile image for the user.  If set to `false` it will be left empty.

- `tokenDuration`: Every time a user signs up or attempts a password reset SecureSocial will generate a token that identifies that request.  Each token has an expiration date and this property is used to compute it. This value is expressed in **minutes** and is set to 60 by default.

- `tokenDeleteInterval`: This property defines how often the `deleteExpiredTokens()` method in `UserService` gets called. This value is expressed in **minutes** and is set to 5 by default.

For example:

	:::bash
	userpass {		
		withUserNameSupport=false
		sendWelcomeEmail=true
		enableGravatarSupport=true
		tokenDuration=60
		tokenDeleteInterval=5
	}

### OAuth based Providers	

The configuration for these providers is simple, just specify the endpoints and OAuth values generated by the external service.

A configuration would like like:

	:::bash
	twitter {
		requestTokenUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/request_token"
		accessTokenUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/access_token"
		authorizationUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/authenticate"
		consumerKey=your_consumer_key
		consumerSecret=your_consumer_secret
	}

	facebook {
		authorizationUrl="https://graph.facebook.com/oauth/authorize"
		accessTokenUrl="https://graph.facebook.com/oauth/access_token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
		# this scope is the minimum SecureSocial requires.  You can add more if required by your app.
		scope=email
	}

	google {
		authorizationUrl="https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth"
		accessTokenUrl="https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
		scope="https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email"
	}

	linkedin {
		requestTokenUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/requestToken"
		accessTokenUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/accessToken"
		authorizationUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/authenticate"
		consumerKey=your_consumer_key
		consumerSecret=your_consumer_secret
	}
    	
	github {
		authorizationUrl="https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
		accessTokenUrl="https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
	}

To get the `clientId`/`clientSecret` or `consumerKey`/`consumerSecret` keys you need to log into the developer site of each service (eg: Twitter, Facebook) and register your application.

Commit message:

- Added documentation for password plugins - Added base class for Java based password hashers: BasePasswordHasher - Added PasswordValidator to allow customization of password rules/strength - Added DefaultPasswordValidator that enforces the length of passwords - Fixed a RuntimeException in the github provider (thanks @chazmcgarvey) - Changes to TwitterProvider: use of API 1.1 and https for the image avatar (thanks @chazmcgarvey)

docs/src/manual/source/guide/configuration.md, after:

---
file: configuration
---
# Configuration

Create a `securesocial.conf` file within your app's conf directory.  Then include it from your `application.conf` file.  

## Mail settings

If you plan to use the `UsernamePasswordProvider` you need to configure your mail service. SecureSocial uses the [mailer plugin](https://github.com/typesafehub/play-plugins/tree/master/mailer) from Typesafe.

These settings go in the `smtp` section of the `securesocial.conf` file:

	:::bash
	smtp {
		host=smtp.gmail.com
		#port=25
		ssl=true
		user="your_user"
		password=your_password
		from="your_from_address"
	}

## Redirection and SSL

SecureSocial tries to redirect the user back to the page they intended to access after login.  There are cases where this can't be done (eg: the user tried to POST a form) or accessed the login page directly.  Adding the `onLoginGoto` property allows SecureSocial to redirect the user to the page you need.  There is also a `onLogoutGoto` property for logout actions.

You can enable SSL for OAuth callbacks and for the login, signup and reset password actions of the `UsernamePasswordProvider` (you'll want this in production mode).

	:::bash
	securesocial {
		#
		# Where to redirect the user if SecureSocial can't figure that out from
		# the request that led the use to the login page
		#
		onLoginGoTo=/

		#
		# Where to redirect the user when he logs out. If not set SecureSocial will redirect to the login page
		#
		onLogoutGoTo=/login

		#
		# Enable SSL for oauth callback urls and login/signup/password recovery pages
		#
		ssl=false	
	}

## Provider settings

The configuration for each provider goes within the `securesocial` section as well. 

### Username Passsword Provider

The following properties can be configured:

- `withUserNameSupport`: depending on your app you can decide to use email addresses or usernames for login.  When this setting is set to `false`, the username field will be hidden in the sign up form and the email address/password combination will be used to authenticate the user.  When set to `true` usernames will be used.

- `sendWelcomeEmail`: if the to `true` a welcome email will be sent to users after sign up.

- `enableGravatarSupport`: if set to `true` Gravatar will be used to retrieve a profile image for the user.  If set to `false` it will be left empty.

- `tokenDuration`: Every time a user signs up or attempts a password reset SecureSocial will generate a token that identifies that request.  Each token has an expiration date and this property is used to compute it. This value is expressed in **minutes** and is set to 60 by default.

- `tokenDeleteInterval`: This property defines how often the `deleteExpiredTokens()` method in `UserService` gets called. This value is expressed in **minutes** and is set to 5 by default.

- `minimumPasswordLength`: Defines the minimum password length the user can enter. Defaults to 6 if not specified. 

For example:

	:::bash
	userpass {		
		withUserNameSupport=false
		sendWelcomeEmail=true
		enableGravatarSupport=true
		tokenDuration=60
		tokenDeleteInterval=5
		minimumPasswordLength=8
	}

### OAuth based Providers	

The configuration for these providers is simple, just specify the endpoints and OAuth values generated by the external service.

A configuration would like like:

	:::bash
	twitter {
		requestTokenUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/request_token"
		accessTokenUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/access_token"
		authorizationUrl="https://twitter.com/oauth/authenticate"
		consumerKey=your_consumer_key
		consumerSecret=your_consumer_secret
	}

	facebook {
		authorizationUrl="https://graph.facebook.com/oauth/authorize"
		accessTokenUrl="https://graph.facebook.com/oauth/access_token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
		# this scope is the minimum SecureSocial requires.  You can add more if required by your app.
		scope=email
	}

	google {
		authorizationUrl="https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth"
		accessTokenUrl="https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
		scope="https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.profile https://www.googleapis.com/auth/userinfo.email"
	}

	linkedin {
		requestTokenUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/requestToken"
		accessTokenUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/accessToken"
		authorizationUrl="https://api.linkedin.com/uas/oauth/authenticate"
		consumerKey=your_consumer_key
		consumerSecret=your_consumer_secret
	}
    	
	github {
		authorizationUrl="https://github.com/login/oauth/authorize"
		accessTokenUrl="https://github.com/login/oauth/access_token"
		clientId=your_client_id
		clientSecret=your_client_secret
	}

To get the `clientId`/`clientSecret` or `consumerKey`/`consumerSecret` keys you need to log into the developer site of each service (eg: Twitter, Facebook) and register your application.
