docs/src/manual/source/guide/overview.md, before:

---
file: overview
---
# Overview
SecureSocial is an authentication module for Play Framework applications that works with
services based on OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenID.  

It provides out of the box support for:

- Twitter (OAuth1 )
- Facebook (OAuth2)
- GitHub (OAuth2)
- Google (OAuth2)
- LinkedIn (OAuth1)
- Username/Password with signup and reset password functionality.

*More services are coming soon*

# Scala or Java

SecureSocial is written in Scala. However, if you don't use Scala fear not, the module provides APIs in both languages so you can use your preferred one :-).

## Versions

Latest stable versions are:

- SecureSocial 2.0.5 for Play 2.0.x: available in the [2.0.5](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/2.0.5) branch on GitHub.
- SecureSocial 0.2.6 for Play 1: available via the official module repository and under the [1.x](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/1.x) branch on GitHub.

*Note: the [master](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial) branch is used for development, you can use it to get access to the latest changes but keep in mind that things might break there*.

## Important

This guide is for SecureSocial 2, if you need the documentation for an older version please check the [1.x](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/1.x) branch on GitHub.

Commit message:

added docs for the master snapshot

docs/src/manual/source/guide/overview.md, after:

---
file: overview
---
# Overview
SecureSocial is an authentication module for Play Framework applications that works with
services based on OAuth1, OAuth2 and OpenID.  

It provides out of the box support for:

- Twitter (OAuth1 )
- Facebook (OAuth2)
- GitHub (OAuth2)
- Google (OAuth2)
- LinkedIn (OAuth1)
- Username/Password with signup and reset password functionality.

*More services are coming soon*

# Scala or Java

SecureSocial is written in Scala. However, if you don't use Scala fear not, the module provides APIs in both languages so you can use your preferred one :-).

## Versions

### Stable

- SecureSocial 2.0.5 for Play 2.0.x: available in the [2.0.5](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/2.0.5) branch on GitHub.
- SecureSocial 0.2.6 for Play 1: available via the official module repository and under the [1.x](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/1.x) branch on GitHub.

### Snapshots

- There's a snapshot built from master for SecureSocial 2.

*Note: the [master](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial) branch is used for development, you can use it to get access to the latest changes but keep in mind that things might break there*.

## Important

This guide is for SecureSocial 2, if you need the documentation for an older version please check the [1.x](https://github.com/jaliss/securesocial/tree/1.x) branch on GitHub.
